Hello, and welcome to today's episode of Rawkode
live. I am your host, Rawkode.
Now before we get started, I just wanna
cover a little bit of housekeeping.
First, please subscribe
to the YouTube channel. This helps other people
find this content. My goal is to produce
valuable learning materials for us all on the
cloud native landscape, and I hope that you
can subscribe and share that knowledge with us.
Also, I wanna encourage you to join our
Discord channel where, you know, if you have
questions or you want to experiment or even
suggest new technologies that we should cover, the
Discord channel is the best place to do
that. We've got a few hundred people in
there now talking about cloud native Kubernetes and
everything in between. Again, come and join us
there.
And I also want to thank my employer,
Equinix Metal, who provide the time, resources, and
everything else that allows me to do this
as part of my job. So thank you
Equinix Metal. Feel free check out that platform
by using the code Rawkode live. This will
get you $50 in credit. That is roughly
around one hundred hours of compute on a
modest instance. So take it, enjoy it, play
with it. Alright.
Now, today we're gonna be taking a look
at Kubeflow,
a open source program and technology that allows
you to run machine learning workloads on Kubernetes.
I am by no means an expert in
machine learning. However, I am joined by
Michael
Tannenbaum,
Kubeflow
maintainer,
who's gonna guide us through everything that we
need to know to get started today. Hey,
Michael. How are you?
You there? Hello.
Yes. I am indeed here. I'm I am
both getting the live and the slightly delayed
audio, so it's a little confusing for me.
I have done that so many times. So
many times.
Yeah. So let
me think.
Perhaps I
I think I think if I if I
resolve to use a single
perhaps not.
What's what's your suggestion, David? Do you have
another tab open with the YouTube page?
Oh my goodness.
What is okay.
Don't worry. Like I said, I've done it
before.
Well
well
said. We we resolved it. Thank you. Alright.
Welcome to or thank you for welcoming me.
Hello. Greetings.
I'm here. Awesome. That's the that's the first
tech up done. Right? That that's done, we
can move on with nothing but glorious successful
demos here on end. And that's the way.
That's that's how we that's that's the only
only way I like to do business, David.
Thanks.
I presume you asked me to introduce myself
or or Yeah. Please feel free to tell
us a little bit about you, and then
we'll we'll start talking about Kubeflow.
Sounds good. Okay. My name is Michael Tanenbaum.
I am a principal solutions engineer in my
day job at a company called Aricto.
We are one of the biggest contributors to
open source Kubeflow, and and,
my
community participation is around the, special interest group
for on premises,
deployments,
where we are working to help make it
easier for folks to deploy in their own
data centers and,
providing reference architectures
and,
particularly bare metal because,
ML workflows
are very workloads are are performance,
sensitive.
And, bare metal, no hypervisor, get it on
out of there,
is, is sort of a a mantra that
we're we're trying to encourage. And certainly for
there's lots of good reasons to do that
security cost. We can talk more about that
if you're interested. But I
live in New York City, so I'm speaking
you to you today from Red Hook, Brooklyn.
And
what else? And previously, I've I've been in
the Kubernetes space for a long time. Before
that, I was in the Mesos space for
any cloud native dinosaurs in the in the
audience. I worked at Mesosphere for a couple
years as well. And I started my career
as a
as a junior developer working on analytics tools
at the World Bank, and since then have
done a million different things all around the
software world. So I love software
and have ever since I was a little
kid, and that's that's sort of what got
me into it. I have no formal education.
It should be noted in anything related to
computer science. I studied Chinese in college.
But
but, yeah, self taught. It's one of the
things I love about our our industry, right,
is people don't really care what's on your
what's on your what your diploma is, you
know, what's hanging on the wall. It's just
can you do the job that, we need
done today? And, even if you can't, can
you Google effectively? So
I couldn't agree more. I have no formal
education in computer science or computer engineering either.
I am a complete that managed to faint
his way into his first role and has
just kept learning ever since.
If it wasn't for Google, I probably wouldn't
have this
It definitely keeps me Well
Keeps me from getting fired, I'm sure.
Alright.
Cool. Why don't we thank you for sharing
all that. It's really
nice to get a little bit of personal
information as well. It's just a general overview
of you. So that's awesome.
Do you wanna then tell us a little
bit of of Kubeflow? We can go straight
into Slice if you wanna do that, or
you can maybe give us a Sure. Yeah.
Yeah. That that sounds good.
So speaking today, not from, you know, the
position of my not from my
day job, but speaking about it, from the
perspective of being a community men member. So
everything you'll see today is open source and,
available for for folks to to play around
with. So, yeah, I do have some slides.
I think that might help, illustrate
a little bit about Kubeflow for folks who
are new to the project.
So there we go. Perfect. Alright.
So
the the Kubeflow project is approximately,
you know, in a formal way, about two
years old, three years old at this point,
2018.
We are just coming up to
the one dot three release. And by just
coming up to, I really mean just coming
up to. I think, the RC is being
cut today.
I should know one of my colleagues here
at is the release manager.
But, I don't wanna put him on the
spot, right, as, you know, I said on
the air that we were gonna release RC.
But yeah. Anyways,
so,
Kubeflow one zero one, just as a a
broad intro, you know, speaking from the perspective.
I know your audience is, is well versed
in the world of cloud native, so,
speaking to an educated audience, about these sorts
of tools here.
So why why q why was Kubeflow
founded?
Well, the
reality is that
today,
we don't really
have
great
DevOps,
SRE sorts of practices around machine learning workloads.
They tend to be very snowflakey.
They tend to be pets.
They tend to have
tremendous operations bottlenecks. After all, machine learning is
a relatively new field. I'm in in my
practice and in my day job, I see
lots of folks who are coming to
the machine learning world from a more operations
background, and then we see people who are
coming from a data science, data engineering background
now being tasked with, you know, really bringing
this into production, bringing this into
a format where we can leverage,
the benefits of of ML,
as opposed to,
at a at scale, right, at the at
enterprise scale or or organizational
scale, you know, for for nonprofits and public
sector folks who would who would like to
use it. So the Kubeflow project was started
to facilitate that,
and it is, as we'll see in a
minute, a collection of many different services,
many different pieces of software.
But the standardization
around,
Kubernetes, which I've, you know, have described I
would describe as an operating system for cloud
native, really. I mean, it's it's what we
deploy distributed software onto, and you can be
fairly, certain at this point that, anyone you
need to move, any any of your clients,
any of your collaborators will also have, Kubernetes.
Anyone else in the in the ecosystem will
have at least some Kubernetes in their, available
to them. It makes sense to, put it
on top of, Kubernetes.
So the project was started at Google. Obviously,
Kubernetes will will would be would be the
preference for
for them as well.
And,
and the Kubernetes scheduler,
is is great at at scheduling,
diverse workloads. So why not take advantage of
it? Right? So we've got the we've got
the the
environment portability sorted. We've got the scheduling
sorted,
and we've got the scaling sorted. Right? So
leveraging containers and and, that that
or, you know, that paradigm for for delivering
a scalable software.
So that's the mission. Alright?
How do we help people get their their
hard work developing machine learning models to a
place where we can,
provide a scalable and repeatable,
pathway to, production?
And maybe it makes sense to take just
one second to talk about what we mean
by production
for our machine learning model. David, would you
agree? Yeah. Go for it. Okay.
So what we mean by putting an ML
model
into production,
is,
going to sound very
simplistic probably to a lot of your, listeners,
in the sense that it's just an endpoint.
It's just a service that we can send
it some payload of information and get back
another piece of information. That's that's all we
need to do. The issue is how do
we automate as much of that process as
possible while ensuring security,
isolation,
and so on. Does that make sense? I
do. Yeah. Yeah. That's so so.
An ML model at the end of the
day is just a is just a formula.
It says, you give me, you know, the
the pieces of information that I need, and
I will give you back a guess. Could
be a guess about is the,
are we coming up to a stoplight? If
you're a self driving car, could be, does
this person have a a medical condition, which
is the example we'll be looking at.
So
why Kubeflow? What was sort of the the
genesis of of the reason you know, the
genesis behind it? There are a lot of
tools that that can help in
cloud native workflows.
And the issue is that there's not really
a a good way to stitch them all
together. So you can think of Kubeflow as
an open ecosystem where you can put in
the tools you want, take out the tools
you don't, but you're guaranteed a degree of
interoperability between all of the all of the
tools, and the base
set of tools will always
work together and cover really most use cases.
Any questions on that?
Make sense? Yeah. I think I'm I'm still
with you. You have not lost me yet.
Okay. Good.
And the this is from the the Kubeflow1.0
user survey
from last year. The the newest one, the
2021 version, will be coming out very shortly.
Some of the issues around
getting a model to production
are, of course, the bottlenecks associated with, you
know, finding, you know, the right operations people
who can take the the data scientist work
output and then deploy it to production. But
there's lots of other stuff too. You know?
Machine
learning models are being used to enhance decision
processes, some of which may have legal or
compliance implications. Making a loan decision, for example,
would be one of those. Making a hiring
decision would be would be another.
And so the more automation that we can
get around documenting
what the model is doing, why why it
was it it produced a a certain thing
and bringing that cost down
as well as time is
is of great value because there's lots more
models that
folks want to put in into production, and
90% of them never get there. I saw
a statistic fairly recently that said
that for the average American bank, it's over
half a million dollars just in compliance cost
to get a model into production. So Yeah.
Lots of, yeah, lots of lots of headache
and costs there.
And, you know, the general
practice is
that it takes, you know, a good six
to nine months to get a model production.
And
for example,
if you're if you're
let's pick us an example. If you're a,
oh, I don't know, a streaming video player
and content producer,
A
I certainly remember when Tiger King was all
the rage. It is no longer the rage.
So if I'm developing a
recommendation
engine using machine learning that helps
viewers identify other shows that they might like
to watch, other programming they might like to
watch.
It doesn't help me very much if my
model
that was trained six months ago gets, you
know, deployed after
everything is after that data is stale. Right?
So there's a notion of currency in machine
learning models that doesn't exist beside you know,
outside of revving libraries and other other stuff,
for for software development,
more broadly.
The data needs to be needs to be
current. There's a a declining,
there's a declining return to the value of
data,
as, as time goes on.
So what's in the box?
You're welcome for not including the meme.
As I mentioned before,
Kubeflow has a ton of different stuff in
it.
The the
data scientist or machine learning engineer or data
engineer
will be familiar with certain
frameworks.
Excuse me. TensorFlow,
PyTorch,
MXNet.
Those will be those will be familiar. They,
of course, also have their fans and detractors
and their lineage. PyTorch was developed by,
came out of Facebook. If I'm not mistaken,
TensorFlow is from Google. MXNet is is developed
and promoted by,
AWS as an example.
But they're all they're all open source. And
so this you can think of the top
of this diagram here as as the interaction
with the the end user will interact with
with these libraries
via
some containerized
environment.
It could be a Jupyter Notebook as an
example. It could be a Versus Code. It
could be RStudio.
Lots of different ways to to interact with
the software
with the software stack proper.
And the beauty of containers is that not
only they they come up very quickly,
but also that, you know, we can standardize
on a set of common libraries. And then
as we need to make adjustments, of course,
layer on top of them.
Under the covers, what we're what we're also
delivering as part of Kubeflow is a set
of
operators that relate. I'll focus down here to
start. A set of operators that relate to
the
specific
machine learning libraries.
So what let's take TF job operator as
an example. So one of the the
great advantages of distributed computing is that,
things that would take forever on a single
machine take longer when we're able to effectively
chunk up that work and distribute it among
many machines. Right? The we can't make the
computers any bigger nor would we necessarily,
want to.
And there,
to,
Waleed's point, thanks for the the comment.
There are actually quite a few more,
that are are very close to being
ready for prime time. So stay tuned. If
you're interested in that,
definitely definitely check that out.
But how how do these what are these
operators? Well, to quote my my dear friend
Jared Dillon, an operator is just a piece
of software, deployed with its own runbook for
for managing that software.
In other words, a custom scheduler, you could
think of it that way in some ways
for for these operators that you have here.
And so what we're able to do is
take our standard our standard code that we
would use TensorFlow
or something like that and very effectively using
the
operator along with the Kubernetes
API, Kubernetes scheduler,
distribute that across all of our resources. So
if
if you're if you're doing
machine learning on on on huge
amounts of data,
you can take something that would take a
a week to train on a single machine.
You can bring it down to half an
hour. Right? Just depends on the resources that
you have available to you.
So that's that's really where we see some
of the the efficiencies,
for folks and and one of the most
exciting elements,
of the,
of the software stack.
We have a a,
Jupyter
it's it's a little bit of a misnomer.
I think they're actually the notebooks working group
is contemplating changing the the name of it,
but essentially a a notebook or coding environment,
web app, and controller. We'll see that in
a second. It's all self-service,
and supports,
in you know, securely injecting secrets into the
environment so you don't have plain text secrets
floating around.
Resource dependencies,
you know, does this does this coding environment
need to be need to have access to
a GPU or some kind of special
resource, some extended resource in Kubernetes,
etcetera.
We also
have quite a few attendant core services that
are
necessary
for productionizing machine workload machine learning workloads.
Pipelines, for example,
folks may be familiar with tools such as
Airflow
or others that that provide
directed acyclical graphs, DAGs as they're known, functionality
so that we can have retry logic, branching,
all of that kind of stuff. Kubeflow Pipelines
is built on top of
Argo, you can see here,
and interacts natively. So so the the the
beauty of of the system working together is
that all of these bits and pieces know
how to talk to each other. There's a
metadata store. So what did we do? There's,
a Kubeflow serving, which is built on top
of Knative
that provides
the ability to publish a model as an
endpoint. Right? So you you know, if I'm
a data scientist, I I don't really know
that much about, you know, operations.
I don't know really anything about Kubernetes,
perhaps. And I still wanna be able to
start doing model deployments
in a in a safe way. And so
Kubeflow serving is built on top of Knative,
as I mentioned, and leverages
Istio's
ability to segment traffic as well as do
things like canary deployments, blue green, all of
that kind of stuff. So if there's any
language here that I'm using that that, you
know, you think folks might not be familiar
with, I'm happy to happy to dive into
it.
And then lastly, and this is super exciting
also, automated hyperparameter tuning. So we're gonna get
into this
a little bit later on, but but and
I I don't like the the analogy, but
this it is a bit
this is sort of where the I I
the art of machine learning and data scientist
science comes in as opposed to the science.
I don't think those things really I don't
think art and science necessarily sit on opposite
ends of a of a spectrum. I don't
think they necessarily oppose one another, but
this is where there is
a certain amount of of
finesse that you need to be able to
read as a human that the the actual
training operation isn't gonna provide you. So that's
where that's where an experienced
data scientist or machine learning engineer will will
have an advantage, and and Kotib helps automate
the workflow for for picking those choices.
If we look just to for folks who
may not be familiar with what an ML
workflow actually looks like generally,
we
we can segment these. These are all these
diagrams are all available on kubeflow.org,
by the way. So that's the the source
for them. We can segment it into into
two phases. The first would be an experimental
phase,
which is identifying
what you're trying to do, identifying the problem,
and then collecting and analyzing the data.
Excluded from this is the the bulk of
the of of the time.
You know, I've I've had to explain to
family members and others
that
programming,
you spend, you know, 95%
of your time stuck. Most of the time,
we're not trying to reinvent the wheel. We
don't have to develop some fun new algorithm.
Something we think should be working is not
working, and we're spending time debugging that.
In so let's call that a
one to to 19 ratio, right, of time
productively plowing ahead with our project and time
trying to find an answer to what's not
working,
at least at least if you're a a
programmer at at my skill level.
In
data science, it's it's worse. It's probably, like,
99 to one or or one to 99
ratio because
cleaning the data,
amalgamating the data, coalescing the data, getting access
to the data,
eats up a a huge a huge huge
amount of time.
So, you know, anything that we can do
and and that's a that's a hard problem.
There's not, you know, there's not a ton
outside of, you know,
bringing in more humans to help with that
that that we can do. After all, if
you had the ability to,
make decisions about your data, then your job
would be done. That's that's kind of the
the point. Right?
So so we really wanna speed this up.
Then, you know, you need to code your
model, pick, pick, how you want the the
structure of the model to work. You need
to see, you know, what kind of results
you get. That's a sort of experimentation.
You need to tune that, the hyperparameters,
which we'll talk about in a second. Then
you need to do this whole thing again.
When it comes to production,
it's a similar set of steps, but but
a little bit different. So we've we've coded,
excuse me, a mechanism for transforming the data
into there's a sort of industry standard term
that,
for folks, watching.
If you're ever,
you know, if you ever wanna be the
person who, like, sounds, like, really educated, just,
you know, refer to what's known as a
model ready data frame.
You need to get the data into
a a,
state,
into a format, into a form that the
model can understand. You tell the model, this
is what you should expect in terms of
data coming in.
So there's there's that. We'd like to automate
that. That's that's where the notion of having
a pipeline really makes a big difference. Then
we have to train the model. We have
to we'll we'll show that in a second.
And then we have to actually serve the
model. We have to deploy it in some
in some way that, we can see what
the we can have other microservices or other
services in our environment speak to the model.
Ask the model a question. Say, hey.
I've got,
I've got, Dave over here. He's, he's his
last five shows that he watched were x
y z a b c.
I guess that would be six shows.
And
and tell me what I what I should
recommend to him next.
And then over time, as as more and
more people,
you know, choose not to watch
Tiger King or choose not to watch don't
don't pick up on those recommendations,
the model is performing worse. Right? Like, that
that ship has sailed. So there is a
a process by which we must
update, monitor the quality of the the model's
output, and then update it on a on
a regular cadence. And indeed,
there's lots of exciting work going on and
some organizations that are indeed using continuous learning,
what's known as continuous learning in production.
So just to to,
you know, hammer the point home, these are
the the
these are the the Kubeflow components that map
to the different the different stages. You'll notice
the the data cleansing problem,
and data collection
problem is, is left untouched.
Oftentimes,
in the wild for folks who might be
interested, you'll see the the,
what we used to call the smack stack,
but now I guess it'd be the stack
stack
with Kubernetes. Is that amazing?
But Kafka, Cassandra,
Spark,
you know, these types of of tools,
streaming or batch
to be able to to ingest
large amounts of data,
and then we can pass it into a
into a process for for transforming it.
At the production level, you'll notice that pipeline
span all of this. Right? We would have
in our pipeline a a
could even have a transformed data step.
We even have a a train model step.
We would have a serving step and then
a monitoring step as well and hear how
the frameworks line up there.
So I'll take a pause, actually. I'm I'm
sure you have questions, Dave, or someone from
the audience.
I love how you started with, you know,
it's just an endpoint that answers a question
for you. And then you kinda look under
the covers and you're like, oh, shit. Like,
there's like so many different different parts here,
so many different pieces of the stack and
the architecture and
wow. There's an awful lot going on here.
And I'm very excited to see just how
Kubeflow is stitching all this together and making
it better for people to consume. Because like,
is I mean, is this a standard machine
learning pipeline? Like, you know, 12 or more
different pieces of software?
It's just
it's complex.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I used to joke,
you know, that that Kubeflow
is more complicated than Kubernetes
in in many ways. Right?
To to have a functional Kubernetes cluster, you
know, let's see. What would you need? You
need the the API. Right? So you need
some some
control plane, you know, resources scheduler.
You'd need,
you know,
Kube proxy,
core DNS,
Kubelet.
What am I missing, Dave?
That's pretty much the building blocks of a
distributed applications which just be need networking. I
need discovery for DNS. I need compute and
a scheduler. And then, like, let the workloads
go and and do their thing and, obviously,
an API to coordinate that. But I think
what I didn't appreciate until you kinda walked
me through these slides is and I love
the way you said you just start with
an endpoint. Right? But that's just once the
model is trained, but there's all of that
legwork to get to that point. And, you
know, when you had that graph and you're
saying, well, you know, some organizations, it's taken
them six to nine months, and it cost
them half a million dollars. And, like, there's
just so many different components here. And I
I'm assuming that's
probably consistent across most machine learning workloads is
that it's the training and evolution of the
model
that is the best that needs coordinated.
And the faster that you do that, the
the better velocity you've got in shipping new
versions of that model is how you make
your money. Is that fair to say? Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, that's that's
thank you for raising that. I mean, that
that's the that's the the between the lines
message. Right? It still pays
significantly.
You know, it's still an ROI
deeply ROI positive
endeavor
to
to actually spend that half million dollars. That's
just in compliance cost. Right? So
so that's that's not even including the the
labor time and the infrastructure and all the
stuff that went into it.
And, you know, you can see the impact
of it. I mean, AI is everywhere. I'm
I mean, I'm using a a camera application
on my
iPhone to
be serve as my webcam. You know, your
your your telephone or with the Apple architecture,
it's got multiple special purpose cores on it.
Right? Some are are neural cores. Some are
image processing cores. You know, there's a, you
know, a high speed and low speed CPU
cores. There's there's this this is this is
everywhere. You know? If I move my head,
the,
the the bubble around me, you see shifts.
Right? Like James James Bond. Oh, this is
cool. James Bond.
So so how's it doing that? It's it's
recognizing my face. In real time, that's crazy
and terrifying.
You know?
The COVID vaccine. Another perfect example. The COVID
vaccine is, uses mRNA. MRNA is super unstable.
That's why these vaccines go
spoil so quickly. Right? Need to be kept
in liquid nitrogen and all this stuff. It's
because the the the the molecule degrades,
and being able to predict where that molecule
degrade
transform the world. Right? I'm I'm very much
looking forward to getting back into society when
all of this blows over.
Right? Like, so so it's everywhere. It's everywhere.
You know?
Okay. Could we And the reason that yeah.
Sorry. Go ahead. I was just curious. Like,
you know, obviously, like, so we're we're we're
looking at Kubeflow today. This is a way
to kind of I I don't know if
it's to automate or orchestrate or to simplify
all of these moving parts on Kubernetes. But
what was it like before Kubernetes?
Was it just the Wild West?
Oh, well, before Kubernetes, you know, it's so
interesting I find in in technology.
You know, do should we should we kill
the slides for a second? Just just chat
this one out? I mean, I I don't
know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
Where'd your audio go?
No. I'm not hearing anything.
I think it when the screen share dropped,
it kind of
cut you out.
How about now? Oh, yeah. It's back now.
That was weird.
Okay. Yeah. That's that's fun. Yeah.
I I could see the little microphone bar.
Yeah. What was it like? What was it
like? So, you know, one of the things
that blows my mind is, just how, you
know, the left hand doesn't talk to the
right hand. Right? I mean, there wasn't a
lot of distributed computing going on.
But at the, but at the same time,
but at the same time,
there you know,
everything was being done. There wasn't a lot
of distributed computing going on, but it was
possible. Right? Like, there there were there were
options for this. But
the people who are working on these these
training and data science questions
weren't
talking to the people who are doing a
lot of the distributed computing stuff. Right? And
they're certainly the people who are doing the
distributed machine learning at that time, if you
could even call it machine learning. I mean,
you gotta remember a lot of these these
discoveries around machine learning are are extremely recent,
I mean, really in the last ten years.
You know, neural networks were for fifty years.
You know, they they were conceptualized in the
sixties. For fifty years, everyone thought it was
a ridiculous and impossible thing until somebody figured
out, okay. Let's do back propagation, and, well,
it'll work. And it and, you know, there's
a there was a great article. Oh my
goodness.
I can I I'll share a link with
you talking about, the the folks who, the
the academic team, who who
discovered that you could do deep neural networks?
And, and with, you know, with no product,
they they sold their company
for, like, in an auction for, like, $50,000,000
to Google. It's just like an acquihire. You
know? Anyways,
so it is you know, that's the one
size. It's very new. On the other hand,
you know, the folks don't don't talk to
each other.
And then we also concurrently had had
hardware breakthroughs.
Right? I mean, the this is some I
I'm not a a gamer,
personally, but, you know, the the gaming world,
we owe them a debt of gratitude in
a way because by purchasing high end GPUs,
they essentially subsidized
the development of of GPUs
such that they became useful for machine learning.
Right?
Which is something that I don't think most
people really think about.
So you had really, what you had is
people
a a
confluence of events.
One being we now have Internet scale data.
Right? We now have problems we wanna solve
that previously
we didn't have the the
mathematical
algorithms
to be able to to
process in a way that would result in
anything at all valuable.
Right? So, I mean, it doesn't matter if
if I'm not you know, if I wanna
have a self driving car, if I don't
have a machine learning framework or or the
algorithms to be able to to produce something
that will learn how to drive,
I'm not gonna even attempt it. Right?
And then,
and then we had GPU. Right? And that
that really gave us a a lot of
a a lot of horsepower.
You know? And and the scale of these
things for things that are meaningful, you know,
I I
GPT three, which is a an NLP model,
you know, got a lot of attention, when
it came out fairly recently.
That to train that model required,
I'm I'm not so good with, with electromagnetism.
It was, like, three
gigawatt hours of electric does that is that
higher? That seems like a lot. Right? That
is a lot. It was it was the
it was three hours
of a full nuclear power plant's output.
Okay? So that's that's the meaningful metric by
analogy for me. It's it's a lot. Right?
So these are computationally
extraordinarily
expensive operations,
but the yield is there. There's there's a
reason to do it.
Right? So that's that's really how I see
it. We we we didn't really have a
lot of distributed computing.
People could get away with using really big
boxes with a couple GPUs attached to them.
The and the the the
objectives were less ambitious than they are today,
if that makes sense. Yeah. That does make
a lot of sense. It it helps
solidify everything that you're seeing and makes me
understand that a little bit better just that
evolution. You know, I could even think back
as probably
around ten years ago as well and everything,
at least the organization's time is that was
all about ETL pipelines and doing everything in
big batch machines at night when it was
maybe cheaper or using spawns and season, stuff
like that. But now, you know, with things
like Kubeflow and TensorFlow and all this other
stuff, we're we're more real time. We're streaming
machine learning or training models and I think
that's probably driven a lot of,
I don't know, change in the tools that
we use as well. Like, it's not just
here. Send us send us zip archive to
someone at 10PM, and they'll process it at
3AM over four weeks, and then you'll get
it back. Yeah. Yeah. Exact exactly. Exactly. You
know, I remember, you know, back in my
Mesos days, you know, one just to have
a a silly example. China Unicom was a
a huge and very public user of Apache
Mesos just as a to to go in
the way back machine here. And
the the the reason that they they made
the migration to to to use Mesos was
because when someone wanted to figure out what
their cell phone bill was,
they had to wait, like, forty eight hours
for for for a combination of batch processes
and just compute time. Right? And, you know,
that who would accept that now? Like, that's,
you know, that's crazy. We would we would
anytime I log on to my bank and
they have they have a a maintenance window,
I I consider getting a new bank. I
consider getting it, like, inexcusable.
I do that with every company. If I
see a maintenance page, oh, we're done for
scheduled maintenance for the next six hours. I'm
like, what is this? Like, this is that
just gives me so much fear about the
way that they handle their data, work with
their data, and work with their systems.
There's very few cases where I think that
acceptable these days. I I refer to that
as the onion ring and the french fry
problem. I like onion rings. I like french
fries. If I order french fries and I
see an onion ring in my basket of
french fries, now I'm worried about what's going
on. You know what I'm saying?
I like that.
Alright. So
Alright. Back to it. Yeah. Do you want
me to pop out your slides back up?
Please do. Yeah.
Alright. So what's new in Kubeflow1.three?
I know we wanted to give a quick
update. I'll just go through this.
It's a this is a big feature release
that we're that we're coming up to. So
we've got new and updated UIs. So we
have a serving UI now that's got integrated
logging and monitoring.
We've got a new UI for hyperparameter
optimization experiments.
We've got TensorBoard coming. This is the TensorBoard
provides you with monitoring
not from endpoint health perspective, but from quality
of model perspective.
If that makes sense. We talked about before,
know, don't keep recommending Tiger King. We have
a way to monitor manage volumes.
A lot of these datasets are big. How
do we avoid copying them a million times,
and how do we get visibility into that?
We have integration with an open source project
that
we call Kail. This is part of the
the stack developed by one of my colleagues
here at
Aricto in my day job and better integration
with pipeline. So all of this is is
being
you know, getting to the point where we've
got so many people in production. You know,
we really wanna make this as easy and
as clean as possible.
We are also including,
it's been out in the in the world
for a little bit,
But the ability to run Versus Code in
RStudio as your IDE,
like I said, you can if if it
if it fit you know, if it's containerizable,
which what isn't, you know, then you're generally
good to go. But but this will come
out of the box with a new example
notebook images for TensorFlow two dot o and
PyTorch.
And then lastly, we've made some enhancements to
KF serving, such as making it easier to
do canary deployments. Super important, right,
with a with a model in particular because,
we're not you know, it's it's different than
the software development life cycle where, okay. Sure.
We can, you know, put something in stage
and use production,
you know, anonymize production data that we pull
back into staging.
It's not you know, the the the issue
that we'll see with with machine learning models,
you'll see in a second,
is
that we don't really know what exactly is
gonna happen till we get out there. Right?
So you want to, you wanna really take
your time and roll these out progressively over
time.
And, you know, just some additional
library support there.
We've upgraded Istio. Istio one dot nine will
be shipping.
We've completely refactored the way that the manifest
working group, led by,
Ioannis Arcadis,
also one of my colleagues at Aricto, has
completely changed the way that we deploy it.
So it's pure customized now.
You can you can deploy Kubeflow as one
dot three with
with, just basic KubeCTL.
We've got multiuser pipelines, so now you can
isolate,
pipelines,
appropriately
for production deployments.
And, you know, Pod Affinity,
pretty standard stuff, but just making the the,
sort of catching Kubeflow up to the latest
and greatest really in the in the Kubeflow
community. I mean, Pod Affinity is not latest
and greatest, but we have to think about
how we expose these knobs and dials from
a you know, to a a an end
user who is unfamiliar
very likely unfamiliar with Kubernetes,
objects and and deployment models.
So that's that's the that's the state of
affairs with new stuff in one dot three.
And, I promise we'll be getting to a
a live coding example in,
in a MO. But
I wanted to describe a little bit about
what the, coding just provide an analogy for
what the the coding,
example
will,
be demonstrating.
Because if it you know, code that makes
no sense, you know, seems of of limited
value. So if you this is this is
your your
first time
being exposed to deep learning.
I apologize that I'm the one to introduce
you to it, but I don't have a
PhD in anything, let alone mathematics. So
if I can learn it, you can too.
And I'll be borrowing an analogy from Andrew
Trask's grokking deep learning, which is published by
Manning. Highly, highly, highly recommend it as a
as a way to conceptualize and understand what
we're actually doing here. So
we are going to, use an analogy of
a of a fork analyzer.
And what I mean by that is we
are going to attempt to, create
a,
clay mold. You can think of it as
a a clay mold, a block of clay,
and we're gonna try and make a mold.
And the mold is not going to be
for the purposes of pouring liquid metal and
producing additional forks.
Instead, it's the the goal of our exercise
here is to produce a mold that has
that that anything that is a fork should
fit into the mold,
and anything that isn't a fork should not
fit into the mold. Right? So so the
the the mold will tell us is the
thing I'm putting, you know, into it a
fork, And the way it will determine that
is whether the fork sits in the mold
comfortably
or whether it,
you know, gets bumped by the sides of
the mold or something like that such that
it doesn't sit comfortably. Does that make sense?
Yes.
Okay.
So,
I apologize for my, heinously terrible,
graphic design skills, but,
you know, it is what it is. So
here's here's our our clay mold. It's a
block of clay. Right?
And
I will use you as as my my
audience
foil here.
So
so, David,
tell me. Do you think this is a
fork? Are you smarter than a clay mold?
That
is a fork.
Okay.
So I would agree with that. And so
what we will do is we will take
this this this rendering of a fork, and
we will dip it into press it into
the mold. Alright? So what's the outcome of
that? Well,
now we've got a fork shaped mold. Right?
But it's this fork shape. Right?
So let's see how how well our mold
performs. What's next?
David, time to shine. Fork or nonfork?
Fork.
Alright. Agreed. I think this is a fork.
Alright. So let's dip it into the into
the mold and see what happens.
Well, you can see on the screen that
actually,
if we put this fork into the mold,
the mold would tell us that it's not
a fork. Right? It wouldn't sit comfortably in
the mold that we've made. Right?
Correct.
The mold would say, this this ain't no
fork.
We would say it is. So the mold
goes, ugh. Alright. Fine. This is a fork
too? Alright. I will change my molds. Right?
I will the mold will change shape, right,
as it's clay to accommodate this. You told
me this is a fork. Fine. Alright. It's
a fork. I believe you. Whatever. I'll change
myself to to accommodate this weird, you know,
I don't know, a
Victorian style tea fork or whatever whatever it
is. Alright.
So next up,
fork or nonfork?
I'm gonna stick with fork.
Agreed. This is a fork as far as
I'm concerned too. But let's actually just take
a second here and observe some differences.
The forks that we've seen so far have
four tines. This one has five tines.
The forks that we've seen before all merge
down at the base of the tines.
This one has a perplexing gap.
So if we were to put it in
the mold, we would say, wait a second.
This this isn't a fork. The mold would
reject it. So the mold has to update
itself. Right? As we dip it in, now
it's going to make space in the clay
to account for forks like this.
Next up, fork or non fork?
Definite fork.
Definite fork agreed. What do you think is
gonna happen when we try to overlay it?
We have to rotate it. Right? If we
put it in horizontally, it's not gonna work.
Right? So now what we're saying to the
mold is a fork is a fork regardless
of which way it's presented to you. Right?
You you need to to account for different
rotations of a potential fork. Right? So we'll
layer that in. And the mold at this
point learns, ah, so orientation doesn't matter. Right?
Like, as long as I I can sort
of standardize the way that I'm observing these,
as long as they have these characteristics
and you're starting to see with the overlay
what exactly a fork looks like. Right? There's
a little bit of gap between the tines.
There are tines. There's a a part of
the fork where it all merges together, and
there's a handle. Right?
Let's look at another example.
Fork or nonfork?
I mean, I guess technically it's a fork,
but I wanna say not a fork.
It's so. I I for the purposes of
this highly contrived example,
it is a pitchfork exactly.
And
and
but you're you're right. It in I'm gonna
call pitchfork a fork. It has fork in
the name. I'm not a linguist. You know?
Don't don't hate me. But let's see what
the model would say. Well, the mold would
say, nah. This doesn't fit in comfortably.
Right? This is this is not a fork.
Okay. So now the model has to take
into account a
fork that has an odd ratio of length
of handle to length of time. Right?
Right? And that that would be different. Think
about a rake. Right? That that also looks
like but it's not. Right? So think about
that. So now the model says, David, you're
killing me here. Right? Does the handle even
matter at all?
And the the the the the model in
this case is saying,
I guess not. Right? The the thing that
seems to be important are these tines and
the fact that they come together and there's
a little space between them and yada yada.
It seems like the handle is irrelevant. Right?
So you know what? I'm gonna ignore handles.
I'm just gonna chop a section of myself
out so that any handle that comes, you
know, through I'm just gonna disregard that. Apologies.
My dog is harassing me.
I'm gonna completely I'm gonna completely ignore
handles.
Alright? Now
is this a fork?
What do you think?
No.
No. But similar to a fork. Right? Yeah.
So if if we were to compare this,
you know, the model would say,
okay. Yeah. That's a fork. From what I
can tell, in order for something to be
a fork, it has to have tines and
it has to come together at the bottom.
Right? But that's actually not true. Right? It
must have a handle to be considered a
fork. Right? And some some there's some ratio
of handle to time length that we were
not exactly sure what it is, but we
know for sure you're telling me this isn't
a fork, then I know I need to
be looking at the handle. Right?
So
the mold would say, it looks like a
fork to me. The comb admits it, you
know, comes comes out of the closet, admits
that it's a comb. And,
you know, the the model then, you know,
says, okay. I need to consider the handle
when evaluating, but apparently, I don't really care
how long the handle is. Right? So you
this is the process.
Credit all credit due thank you, Solomon. All
credit due to Andrew
Tresk who wrote wrote this book. Is a
sport a sport?
I think we have to answer all the
difficult questions today, don't we? Like Well,
it's it's so funny. So so my girlfriend
is a is a lawyer. She's gonna hate
me for referencing this. My girlfriend is a
lawyer,
but she studied linguistics in college. And,
and the the there was a supreme court
case here in The United States where,
where you're not allowed to destroy financial records.
Right? Like, if if, you know, the government
wants to investigate, you can't just throw it
all in a dumpster fire and say, I
don't have any records. Right? And there was
someone who was caught fishing and and fishing
fish that he wasn't allowed to fish, and
he threw the the the
not to put what I don't know. Not
illegal. I guess illegal. The the fish he
wasn't supposed to catch, threw overboard before the,
you know, police boat caught up with him.
And,
and so the government argued that a fish
was a record, that you have thrown a
fish out.
And in this case, the fish is the
record. Right? But he would you know, his
lawyers argued, a record's a record. A fish
is a fish. So these these sort of
ontological questions, these definition questions are super important.
And I think your your your comment highlights
just how important it is to label things
correctly, right, and to understand cultural perspective. Like,
as far as I'm concerned, this is not
a fork, but I don't I I don't
speak for every person on planet Earth. I
have no idea. Like, maybe this is a
fork. You know? Maybe this is a maybe
this is a fork to somebody else out
there, or maybe there's only one word, right,
that that we that exists in a in
a language,
human or extraterrestrial to describe this this object.
So that the model only knows what you
show it. Right? And and and its its
universe is restricted
to the data that you train it on,
the the images of forks being the data
that we've trained it on in this case.
Does that make sense?
Yes. Am I am I doing okay? Am
I winning the fart game?
Yeah. So far, you've done a great job.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
Yeah. I would I would encourage you to
take up, data labeling if you ever have
extra
time. But you can see this is this
is the the challenge. Right? How do we
label data? How do we ensure that the
data is labeled correctly? How do I if
I have a model that's continuously learning, how
do I not how do I know that
someone isn't feeding me a bunch of combs
to attack my model? Now it's now my
model's gonna start thinking that combs are forks.
That's not good. So Is that something analogy.
Are you okay for a question just now?
Yeah. What's up? Please. Yeah. As many as
you'd like. So how
one of, you know, I am
putting us online as a quiz and encouraging
people to answer questions to help me train
my model and there are bad actors that
are, you know, throwing in bad data. Is
that easy to identify and work with? Is
does that ruin the whole model?
Yeah.
It does, and it is a challenge.
So
I'm trying to remember. I believe it was
the
I
have to remember the name of the podcast.
It it it was, I don't think it
was it wasn't the Go Time podcast, but
it's the same,
network of podcasts.
Oh, thanks, Salman. Really appreciate the feedback.
It's the same network of of podcasts. Anyways,
they had
very interesting discussion
with some of the folks from Mozilla
who are,
you know,
Mozilla,
really,
you're doing you're doing, really important work, and
thank you. I'm sure, you know, it's it's
a challenge. But one of the issues is,
you know, there's really a dearth of material
for, like, natural language processing in
languages with that don't have a huge
community of speakers. Right? So
how they have a a
great system whereby, essentially, the labeling
people can contribute, right, spoken
versions of of text that's read.
And
and then that goes through a peer review
process,
if that makes sense. Right? So so people
will double check to confirm that you're not
attempting to submit
bad data.
The other resource that I would encourage folks
to take a look at is David Aronchik,
who's one of the cofounders
of Kubeflow,
currently runs open source machine learning over at
Microsoft.
He gave a KubeCon talk this past KubeCon,
the most recent one, in which he spoke
about different attack vectors and for machine learning
models and ways to
ways to
mitigate them. But, yeah, if you're if you're
taking input from the community,
you know, we I think we've seen that
quite a bit with with sort of the
issues of, news bubbles
on social media networks,
right,
where the the
the
stream of of
information, stream of of of news
that gets the most reaction,
you know, continues to feed on, and it
leads to extremes and perspectives and exclusion of
counter perspectives.
So, yes, this is this is a a
a
the ethics around AI are
incredibly
important,
and
and, everyone
needs to be extreme needs to pay extreme
attention to them and and be aware of
who you're excluding. Think about this. If you're
and I think
for you all, 911 for us, you know,
an emergency
response,
if if you've only trained on people with
native accents,
right, 20 Yeah. 20 of America's foreign born.
Right?
So guarantee that these I mean, heck,
you for we pronounce things differently. We speak
the same language. So, you know, the this
these questions can't be afterthoughts. They must be
be preliminary thoughts,
prerequisites to to using this. So
Nice.
Yeah. I guess it it helps to be
Google. Right? Mean, you can just launch something
called recapture claim it for security, but really
you're training all your internal models.
Exactly.
Exactly. Please click the one with the motorbike
on it.
So we do have a a couple of
questions. I don't know if you wanna them
now, whether you wanna take them as we
go. I'll let you decide if they're appropriate
for the moment or if you're gonna cover
it later, just say. So while it is
asking,
do you have any advice for people that
wanna run it on restricted networks on prem?
Yes.
Come to the Kubeflow on prem speciality group
meetings. Those are on Thursdays.
We also have,
we also have a
a mailing list, a dedicated mailing list, that
we use for our SIG.
So,
George is,
is helping us out too,
so,
maybe he can share a link to that.
Our meetings alternate between
European friendly times and
West Coast friendly times and Asia Pacific friendly
times. They're on Thursdays. We'd love for you
to come join our join Kubeflow Slack. We
have a channel there too, and we'll be
more than happy to help you.
As as one of Jeff Fogarty, who's one
of the the
coleads of the special interest group and runs
production Kubeflow clusters on premises for a big
American bank says, if it's not behind the
proxy, it doesn't count.
So you will find lots of lots of
kindred spirits there.
Let's see. I have other questions in the
chat here.
Happy to take them.
Solomon, a great question regarding Istio.
So the question is why why was Istio
chosen as a service mesh for Kubeflow?
I think that this is where the politics
of, open source come into play.
Istio, obviously, a Google and IBM
collaboration.
And so I I think that that was
that was the way the way to go.
For a long time also, I think Istio
you know, Linkerd at the time didn't have
a sidecar proxy model, and, so it didn't
get anywhere near the kind of performance,
that
that Istio did. It, you know, had some
scaling issues. Now they moved to a
a sidecar model as far as I understand.
And now everyone and their brother-in-law has a
service mesh. So to the question of,
you know, are there plans to allow for
different service mesh? Yes. And simply by asking
that question, you are now mandated
by law to come to our working group
meetings because we are working on,
with, one of our technical co, coleads,
Marlo Weston, who works at, Intel.
We are spearheading
an attempt to get service mesh interface
implemented to allow anyone service mesh a day
in the sun and to, you know, decouple
in some way a dependency on on Istio.
Super early days. Do not get your hopes
up.
But, you know, that I think there's a
lot of, I think there's a lot of
really exciting work going on, in that regard
too. So yep.
Awesome. Perfect.
Should we jump back to our forks?
We're done with forks. Oh, done with the
forks. Got it. That was that was the
that was that was that was the the
whole kit and caboodle. I I was just
getting a roll there. I feel like you've
cut me off too soon. I was just
getting the swing of it.
Listen, I can't decide if it would be
if it would be a great job or
a terrible job to, you know, it's certainly
not very stressful. But, know, do we do
I wanna be a full time fork analyzer?
I know. But if you sit and do
like 30,000 of those in a day and
you click one wrong and then you can't
stop thinking about it and you wake up
in the middle of the night and you're
like, what if I have destroyed this model
by clicking fork and it was like, you
know, a spark. Like, oh shit. There were
no rules on that. I I
not for me. Too stressful.
Too stressful. Okay. Yeah. No. I I agree.
I agree.
You know, better better to to avoid any,
you know, additional stress
burden in your life.
So just to let you know, I have
up here an example of Kubeflow.
Can you see that? Okay. Yeah. Can you
zoom in a bit on that? It's a
little difficult to read this. Yeah.
Let me see. Let me zoom it.
How about that? Let's go two more.
Two more? Okay.
Fingers crossed everything works as intended.
Yeah. I think that's alright. If anyone has
a problem reading that, just drop in the
comments. We'll go we'll go more. But it
looks okay for me.
Okay. Cool. And just to let you know,
I have clicked away from seeing the screen
because I am
100%
cheating on this live covert coding exercise.
Because
if I if I goof it, it's not
gonna be fun for anyone to watch. Mean,
try to debug it. So
so, yeah, should we get started? Yeah. Let's
go for it. Any questions come up, I'll
keep you updated.
Yes. Thank you. That's that's what I was
hoping for. Alright. So this is the Kubeflow
UI.
Every user has their own namespace,
and that translates to or a workspace that
translates to a a Kubernetes namespace.
Let's open up
notebooks. Right? So I need an environment in
which to,
start my development.
So,
what can I what can I do? I
can give my environment a name. We'll give
this,
we'll call this X-ray.
And,
I can pick an image that I wanna
use. I can also use any kind of
custom image. Most people, you know, will have
an image that they're for a project. Right?
So your team is all sort of aligned
on one thing.
I can specify
my
CPU and and memory
guarantees.
So this would be a request.
There's no
you know, you don't really necessarily for the
audience,
that's gonna be using this. The end user
data science scientists, you don't necessarily wanna put
a a a limit on it. That's generally
sort of an administrative task.
Let's see here. Oh, this is not
give me my configurations.
Oh. Uh-oh. Alright. Time to go to work.
No. No. No. We're good. We're good. Did
I tell you it was cooking show style,
or did I tell you it was cooking
show style?
So
here's a cluster that's actually working. Woo hoo.
Alright. So I have an example that stood
up, but we're we're gonna do we're doing
a live. And I gotta zoom this one
in, of course, because I didn't I did
the same on the other one. And just
tell me when to stop.
How we want it? Yeah. I think that
should be alright. Let's take it from there.
Okay.
Cool. Thank you for your
flexibility. So let's call this X-ray two.
We're gonna do the same thing we did
before. We're gonna give it a a nice
big,
drive. I think I have, like, 200 gig
on here. So
another 50 shouldn't hurt anybody. I can add
extra volumes.
I wanna be able to interact with Kubeflow
pipelines. I could also, at this point,
specify whether I wanna attach this to a
GPU. I believe I have GPU in this
cluster, but I don't wanna attach it to
a GPU because,
it's just it's it's a it's something I
advise folks against because most of the time,
the GPU is gonna be idle. And the
beauty of Kubernetes is we have shared resources.
So make a pipeline, have one of the
pipeline steps, use the GPU, and then let
other people use it. Right? Does that make
sense? Makes sense. Definitely. Alright.
So
this is
gonna take a second to come up.
In the background, I am going to
SSH
into
So what's this spinning up right now? Is
this the virtual machine inside of Kubernetes?
A virtual machine inside of Kubernetes. Shame on
you. You know it's not. No. This is
no. I know I know you're you're just
trying to feed me the the line here,
but, no. No. In fact, no, David. It's
not.
This is a this is a container. This
is a pod that's being deployed to my
namespace.
And,
there's a a a Jupiter,
like I said, it's gonna be renamed a
Jupiter web application. It's Jupiter controller that that
manages that.
And if you'll notice here,
there are configurations that I can apply,
and this uses
an
object called pod defaults. I is that I
I don't know how common the use of
pod defaults are outside of machine learning and
Kubeflow in particular.
But suffice it to say, the way that
this works is what I'm doing when I
actually click this, one of these configurations, and
that could be, you know, for example, you
know, give me give us give me in
this notebook, want an environment variable
that has access to that has the the
up to date secrets
for our private container registry or a private,
you know, git repository or whatever we're doing
within our environment. Right? Alright. So any anything
like that. Or it could be, you know,
a a a you know, maybe I'm about
to do some stuff that requires a a
specific
type of, hard disk at a minimum. So,
you know, you can access it that way.
And what the what the pod default controller
actually does is,
what we do with the Jupyter web app
controller does is it puts a label
that,
that the the,
that will be applied to the,
the
deployment, the stateful set that's actually being generated
behind the scenes,
abstracted for the end user, GUI driven. But,
it will apply a label to to that,
and then the pod defaults controller knows to
observe that that label and then to inject,
you know, a a config map or a
secret or or anything like that. You know,
either it's environment variable or it's a mounted,
what do they call, projected volume, whatever.
You're making me dig into my, like, CKA
studying. This is this is a
it's been a it's been a while since
I took that test. Thank goodness they made
it valid for three years now, though. That's
huge benefit. I think that feature used to
live as a pod preset back in the
day before it was deprecated. Correct. I'm assuming
it's now just the mission controller and Kubeflow's
version is called pod defaults. But it's it's
not something I've used personally.
At least the the pod default version, I
mean. But it sounds it sounds like the
same thing as the old pod presets.
Exactly. Right. This is this is like a
successor to that. Yep. Exactly.
Okay. So what did I do? I just
clicked
I just clicked connect,
and,
now
I am presented with a JupyterLab
environment.
Right? So,
you have a a file browser,
some plug ins. We'll take a look at
those in a minute.
First things first
excuse me. I have to cough.
First things first,
we need to get our data. So in
order to get our data, we need my,
Kaggle key,
which I don't know where I put. Actually,
I do know where I put
oh, alright. You can share it. But, basically,
we're very trustworthy here.
Yeah. I I'm I just don't wanna shame
myself with,
let me let me pull up a a
finder window here and drag and drop.
Please hold. Alright. So we I need my
Kaggle key. Kaggle is,
a great place if you're getting started with
all this stuff and and you wanna get
some good datasets to experiment
with, yada yada, highly recommend highly, highly recommend,
checking out Kaggle.
The other thing I'm going to do just
because it's,
really boring to go through it one by
one is copy,
in a requirements
file.
This is
a Python notebook. So
there we go. Requirements.
Okay. So I'm gonna pop open a terminal.
So this is like if you did kubectl
exec dash I t dash dash bash or
something like that, same sort of thing.
I'm gonna do a few things. First, I'm
gonna alias l
oh,
there we Docs. Be my friend. There we
go. I'm gonna alias l as
l s dash a l h. Okay.
Alright. See, what can we see in here?
I've got some
environment
specific stuff from Jupiter specific stuff. Nothing too
crazy.
First thing I'm gonna do is put my
key where I need it to be. So
I gotta make a dot Kaggle file folder.
I'm gonna c p kaggle
dot json.
Mhmm.
Kaggle.
There we go. Dot JSON to dot I
don't know why it didn't autocomplete like that.
Alright. So let's l.Kaggle
just to make sure it's there, and it
is. Okay. Great. So next up, what are
we gonna do? We're gonna do pip three
install
dash u
Kaggle. That's gonna give us the
Kaggle CLI,
which will be super helpful.
Alright.
Next up,
we are going to
download a dataset. How about that? So we
are going to do Kaggle
datasets
download.
Download.
What do we want? Okay. Let me just
copy the repo here. Can you try pressing
command plus on that a few times and
see if it zooms in?
Yeah. I think there actually is a way
to change the
console.
There was a presentation mode there. I don't
know if that does anything, though, under view.
Oh, really? Where did you see that?
The top of the presentation mode.
And that doesn't do it. Yeah. Just try
command plus. You're on a Mac or you're
on Linux Windows? Yeah. Yeah. I'm on a
I'm on a Mac command
and
I've got so many like modifier
keys on the Ergodox.
Nobody that has an Ergodox and has come
on the stream has a pleasant time typing.
Seems to be the way. He's like paying
you Ergodox users.
No. No. No. It's it's it
is the best.
But when you ask me to do something
different than what I'm used to,
I don't oftentimes I have to remember. Plus,
I use the Dvorak keyboard layout.
I
I mean, that blew it up, but it's
for the purpose that we'll we'll we'll zoom
it out. How about when we get into
the notebook? There we go. Yeah. If we're
not doing much on a terminal, if it's
just getting dependencies, we can just move on.
Yeah. Let me control. I don't think downloading
a YouTube URL is gonna work with Kaggle
though.
Not
yet anyway. Alright.
Copy.
No. Alright. I'm just gonna type it out.
So this this user on Kaggle is awesome
and you should totally check out everything
that
he's got on there because these are some
really fun datasets. So to this time, we
are going to
we are going to be trying to create
an image classification
model similar to the fork.
But instead of predicting,
forks and nonforks,
we are going to be looking at chest
X rays to determine if the, X-ray,
presents with pneumonia or does not.
And one can imagine, many many valuable,
applications for that, particularly, say, in in remote
places,
that may not have access to radiologists all
the time, that kind of thing, or as,
an enhancement, a double check to a clinical
decision making, sort of a process.
Next up, we're going to unzip
chest X-ray. There we go.
So you can see here,
lots happening on the screen. Basically,
the way that the
images are
labeled, that is to say, how do we
know whether something is a
a healthy,
normal image or a
pneumonia
image is by the directory.
And so the,
the modern machine learning,
frameworks all have very, useful helpers to just
say, here's, you know, here's the the
here's the the zero and here's the one.
Right? A binary outcome. Either this person's got
pneumonia or they don't. Right? That make sense?
Yeah.
Alright.
So next up, what we're gonna do is
just make our lives simple by doing pip
three install
dash user
dash
r requirements
dot t x t.
And
we're gonna go through all of this, and
it's gonna install
all of the,
libraries and so on. You know, such a
great oh, let me just open this up
and edit it
because there is something that is not a
kosher
file.
Save file. Let's try this again. I like,
looking at this. You know, I it it
takes a second, but I like it because
it just demonstrates, like, so many people contribute,
like, stuff that's super important,
you know, that that we all rely on.
And and, like, we really build
on the shoulders of everybody else, you know,
the the people who have contributed stuff before
and what's it's what lets us do our
do what we do. And
so I I don't
I don't begrudge it. I'll put it that
way.
It's like a a good reminder to be
appreciative for everything that's been invested.
Yeah. There's so much amazing open source software.
There are any problem you can think of.
You can go to NPM, crates, you know,
the GoRegistry,
PHP.
You search for it. Someone's
generally done it for free, made it available,
and it's there for you to use, and
hopefully contribute back to it. It always amazes
me. Exactly. Open source is a wonderful thing.
Yeah. Yeah. And there's, you know, there's libraries
that, like, everything
in the world relies on, you know, maintained
by one lady in a basement somewhere. You
know?
So it's yeah. It's it's incredible. It's like
the it's a it's a real
free for all.
Okay. So we've got our
dependencies installed, our our libraries installed.
Now we will come over to the launcher,
and we will open a Python three notebook.
Ta da.
How about that?
I will give of course, I mentioned
Paul Timothy Mooney,
from
Kaggle.
I also wanna thank, the the
Coursera course
by,
Andrew and his call
collaborators,
from Google.
So,
you know, this is where this is where
I've learned a lot. And and, you know,
it's all open source, but, know, I wanna
give credit where it's where it's due.
I borrowed some of their their techniques and
a little bit of their
display code here. So the first thing we
gotta do is import some stuff. So
let me actually
Jupyter has this weird thing where, like, it
doesn't it really cares, like, when you name
a notebook, like, as to whether you end
up with, like, 10,000 files. So let's do
import
OS. We're gonna import random. We're gonna import
NumPy as NP.
Import tensor
tensor flow
as TF.
Import TensorFlow
dot Keras as
Keras. So Keras is like a sugar layer
on top of TensorFlow.
This makes your life a lot easier.
Then we're gonna get even more specific. We're
gonna say from
tensorflow
dot keras dot optimizers.
We'll talk about what these are. I even
have a a track down a a neat
little GIF to sort of illustrate it.
Again, thank you, Internet.
We're gonna
import the RMS prop
optimizer.
And from TensorFlow
.KerasKeras.preprocessing.image.
We are going to import
image
generator four. Okay.
Oops. Sorry. I misspelled that. It's image data
generator. I I'm a % cheating. I find
live coding in front of other people, like,
the the most stressful thing. Okay. So then
we're gonna do some other stuff that'll be
familiar. We're gonna import matplotlib
dot pyplot as PLT.
We're gonna import matplotlib
dot
image as
m p image.
Nope. None of that was correct. MIMPIBG.
Yep. And then just so that we get
pretty
so we get consistent results, we're gonna set
the random seed, you know, just so we
can do apples to apples. Alright? And
we will execute the cell with shift enter.
No module found. Oh, because I missed a
p. That's
yeah. Thing I always have to tell noncomputer
folks is that the thing about computers is
if
if the computer says you did it wrong,
it's because you did it wrong. You know?
I'm just gonna copy and paste in this
is just we're just gonna look at the
length of a directory because our images are
in the directory. Right? And I just wanna
be able to use that to say, this
is how many
images we have. So we have
thirteen hundred forty two normals and
thirty eight seventy six pneumonias.
This is a very small dataset. You you
know, this
should never be used for anything serious at
all.
But you'll see that we are still able
within this context to,
I mean, you know, if we had 25
gigs of images, we'd we'd have to check
back next week. You know?
Is that a sort of normal ratio, like,
three to one? Is that, like, just is
that still the golden ratio for machine learning?
Like, if we wanna do pneumonia detection, we
need three of them to every one non
pneumonia? Or is that just complete serendipity?
It's this is this is complete serendipity.
You know, to the best of my knowledge,
I don't I I
the golden rule is more is better, defer
more diverse is better. Right? So, you know,
equally weighted among the the the the
group that you want to you know, the
groups that you wanna be able to make
predictions for. Right? So I believe, in fact,
that this dataset comes from,
I wanna say, Vietnam, if I recall correctly.
Suffice it to say, it's it's gonna be
a population of patients from Vietnam that may
or may not be, you know, applicable to
everybody else. Right?
Okay. Does that make sense? Yeah. Alright.
So
just keeping an eye on the time.
There's a
I'm gonna do a copy paste for the
boring bits because I wanna be able to
spend time on the exciting bits.
And here, what I'm gonna do this is
a really handy technique that ever since I
learned about it, I do it all the
time where we'll just define a base directory.
We've got a training directory, so this is
very helpful. Right? So among our training data,
you can see here it's all under the
the subdirectory train. You could see it over
here too. Right? So here we go. Train
test. Test X-ray.
Train test and validation. So
training
is the dataset we'll use to train on.
The the testing
is to,
observe whether or not that,
you know, to to keep some data outside
so that the model can't cheat and update
itself based on, you know, the forks we're
gonna test it against in the future because
then it'll learn about those forks or, in
this case, the
X rays,
and, it won't be representative of new data
that it's never seen before in the real
world. Right? Yep. So all I'm doing here
is just a a little directory manipulation.
Okeydoke.
And if we add up the training
for for normal, so there'll be a 5,218
training
examples and 624
testing examples. Alright? So this will be used
to validate.
This is very handy that the dataset comes
like this. It almost never does. There are
some really helpful
helper functions that will split your dataset for
you,
like, the test train split, appropriately named test
train split,
tool
that comes with, with
SciPy.
So
let's actually you know, let's be data scientists
for a moment and take a look at
some examples of, you know, what this what
this data actually looks like. So we'll set
an index for ourselves
for comparison purposes.
Alright.
And
let's take a look. Let's call this normal.
Right? So we're gonna look at a normal
example.
I'm gonna give it an image path, and
that's going to be
gotta join this up. Train
normal
dir
dir.
Yep. Here we go. And then within that,
I want train
normal,
f names,
and I wanna pull the,
obviously, pick index. That's why we made it.
Okay.
And
then
oh, it's it's a little it's a little
hard to do with the Zoom, but we'll
get it. We'll it. We'll get it. Alright.
We can scrunch this a bit. There we
go. Alright. So then what we're gonna do
is we're gonna have an image variable and
m image. Remember, we made that variable up
at the top. We're gonna do I'm read
image
path,
and then we're gonna do plot dot
I'm show
image. I'm not a professional data scientist. If
there's, you know,
folks who take offense to any of this
know that I I do this
very much as a novice. Alright. Here we
go. So these are grayscale images. I'm I'm
displaying them,
in a, you know, a sort of
fun color, you know, highlight way to make
it just look a little bit different. But
here's a person who does not have pneumonia.
Alright? So there will be a test at
the end. Are you smarter than the model?
Apropos the, forks discussion earlier.
So now let's compare that with a pneumonia
example.
And
I've already you know, no need to watch
me type poorly. So Feel free just to
paste whatever. Like, can just run. Yeah. If
I have questions about the code, I'll just
throw them at you. Don't worry about it.
Okay. Cool. Cool. Cool. Yeah. Sorry. I wanna
make sure we get through it. So, anyways,
okay. So we're doing this. Now we're doing
it with a pneumonia example.
Okay. You know, it looks pretty
pretty different. Sorta
I wanna use the word gloopy,
but I don't think that's a
a Scrabble accepted word. So I was thinking
more haunted.
It looks more haunted. You're thinking what? More
haunted.
More haunted. There we go.
Yep. Okay. So I think I well, so
this is interesting. Right? Like, these are these
are different cases, and this one is only
barely more haunted. Right? So, you know, not
not so super simple here. So it fails
already. You
and me both. I mean,
you know, if I didn't go to if
I didn't go to a a data science
graduate school, I definitely also did not go
to medical school. So, you know, you put
those two things together.
So it's gonna be a nightmare for you
and me over at the hospital, and some
people are gonna die.
Alright. So what am I doing here? This
is how we use Keras to,
construct a model. So we're creating a variable
model. It's going to be a a sequential
model, a
a a type Keras models.
And,
what we're,
what we're defining
here
is a couple of things. The first is
first thing we need to do is give
instructions
to the model
about what kind of data it can expect.
So oh, these are, three color channels. My
bad. Okay. So these are color images.
So what the first thing that we're gonna
do is we're telling the model, hey. You're
gonna get an image. It's gonna be a
50 by a 50 pixels, and there's gonna
be three color channels. So for every pixel,
there'll be a a value,
for each of the color channels.
Then,
what we're what so what you're gonna need
to do is,
sort of
unravel that. Right? And so it's a a
a flat thing.
But the first thing that we're gonna do
is we're gonna do a this is a
convolutional neural network. So what's a convolutional neural
network? Basically, it's like applying a filter. I'm
gonna show you an example of what the
model sees a little bit later later on.
It's very similar. You think of it very
similarly to, like, the way that your phone,
you know, will put a an image, will
put a filter on an image. Right? We're
we're looking at the pixels. We're seeing the
values for each of the color channels, for
each of the pixels, and we're making some
decision about how to adjust it based on
its the the pixels that surround it. Okay?
So you can imagine there's lots of different
types of they're called kernels that lots of
different types of filters. Right? So here we
have a three by three. So we're passing
you can think of it like,
you know, when when folks used to look
at slides over a light box, you know,
and they would scrunch in, you know, to
look and then they would go, you know,
across it to really look very closely at
a at a slide image or a photo
negative. This is a very similar idea.
And, here, we're gonna do, 16 different filters,
and the filters will be,
three by three. And then based off of
the
output that we get where where we we
adjust the input, we'll come in with its
own, values for those those pixels, and then
the output will be,
based off of, how those pixels relate to
each other. So here we're doing, for example,
max pooling. It's a two dimensional image. We're
doing max pooling, which means that it's gonna
evaluate
the the filtered
result. Right? So it might say, you know,
whatever the algorithm is that's applying to that
that three by three, those nine pixels. And
it's saying, you know, take the max two
by two of those. Find the max values,
right, for those for for in a two
by two
for that and use only that. Then we
pass it into another layer where we're actually,
doing another layer of of convolution.
Right? So here we're doing 32 filters. Again,
three by three,
and then we're gonna pull it down to
a two by two. And we go through
that one more time.
After we get through we'll talk about activation
in a second. After we get through all
of that, what I wanna do is then
flatten this out. So I'm getting a a
a a
an array
of of values,
right, that are, you know, between
zero and one typically, some normalized
values.
And then I'm going to
then I am going to,
put those into
a neural network with 512,
neurons. So you you can think of this
as,
every neuron is a dense network, so every
neuron is connected to every other neuron. And,
essentially,
the, the way that machine learning works is
it'll,
push it through, observe,
which of the neurons,
contributed the most to,
the error that was observed. Right? So, you
know, which neuron was responsible for calling this
know, if it makes a mistake and says,
I think this person is healthy and does
not have pneumonia,
it'll the the it'll then recalculate.
Right? Just when we got a new fork,
we have to recalculate the mold. It'll recalculate
in a process called back propagation,
that
automatic well, by virtue of, partial differentiation,
we'll be able to associate
the end result, namely the error, how bad
the prediction was, how off it was in
terms of its confidence that this person was
symptomatic of of pneumonia or had pneumonia,
which neurons
contributed the most to that error. And so
we're gonna
change those neurons in the opposite direction the
most. And which neurons had relatively no impact
on the decision or on the error, let's
leave those alone. Right? Does that make sense?
Yeah. I think so.
Okay.
The activation is just what does it take
for this neuron to actually fire? Right? Like,
there we don't want every neuron to fire
all the time. There should be some minimum
of of signal that the neuron's receiving in
order for that to even be
to even be
considered
at all by the by the end result.
So ReLU is a is a contraction
of a rectified linear unit, if I recall.
So you just think about, like it
it almost looks like a,
like a a call option graph. So, you
know, nothing.
Don't give any signal. But if you get
past this threshold, then have a linear relationship
with with output to input. Sigmoid,
if you if you remember from school, is
gonna give you, like, an s shape. Right?
So far extremes will never go above two
bounds.
But as you approach zero, you start to
to see
a significant
increase and then leveling off of the
the slope of the curve. Alright? Does that
make sense? Sort of?
It's good this is going. Ask me any
questions.
No. It's just It'll make a lot more
sense once we see an an example of
it. Right? I hope so. What the models
use. Yeah. So
sorry.
No. But it's it's doing stuff. You're explaining
it well. It's just it's just not something
that I am familiar with, but I'm looking
forward to seeing the step by step through
it. So, you know, keep going. Let's do
It'll make more sense. This is why I
picked a a CNN with with images because
you can see what the model sees in
a way. Alright?
So,
here, we're gonna have I'm gonna create two,
image data generators.
This is the the help the handy,
helper functions I was talking about before.
And then we're gonna give it some information
about batch size, how much, you know, we
want them to we want it to automatically
resize each each image.
It's a binary
class in the sense that you either have
pneumonia or you don't.
We're gonna define batch size
here.
It's gonna error on me because I did
not
in the interest of simplicity, I did not
include
this, but we're going to include it.
Gonna define some some variables known as hyperparameters.
Let me copy and paste these in. We'll
talk about these a little later, but I
just wanted to have these variables,
in memory so it doesn't whine at me.
So it's gonna we're gonna define a batch
size.
We're gonna define a,
source directory and so on. Now
you didn't realize this, but when if I
may go back to the fork example,
we made some significant choices when going through
this whole exercise.
One of which was that after every fork,
we made an adjustment to the model. Right?
Which is,
okay.
Right? But may not be actually what we
want. Right? Like, we may want to average
all of the forks. Right? All of the
what let's not change the model. Let's take
the average of the of the changes to
the model suggested by the multiple forks that
we've that we've looked at in a batch
and then make make changes based on the
average suggested by that batch. Does that make
sense? Like, you don't wanna go too overboard.
Otherwise, I'll get a model that's like, you
know, Victorian t fork and and and,
pitchfork. Right? Like, maybe I can average them
together. That'll give me a healthier sort of
look. That's that's batch size. Right? The other
thing that we didn't talk about at all
is, like, for example, what kind of sand
are we using in our clay? Clay is
made from sand. Right? You know, how thick
are the grains? Right? If they're coarser,
I will have less
ability to
you know, I'll have less ability to to
create fine detail. But maybe that's good. Right?
Like, maybe I don't want the model to
expect, like, you know, these sort of, baroque,
design features of a of a fork. Right?
So this the same idea here. This is
how we define
the,
the the the nature of the mold, if
you will.
Alright. So
we've got this going on. Now we need
to compile our model. Alright.
And what we'll do here is we'll just
call the compile function,
and,
we'll use an optimizer,
called RMS prop.
And, basically, the the optimizer says excuse me.
The optimizer says, okay.
I I can calculate you'll tell me how
I'm gonna calculate loss. Right? Tell me how
I know how wrong I am. Right? In
this case, we're gonna use a loss function
called binary cross entropy, which is a way
to measure
how off
binary classification
examples are.
But, like, now tell me, like, how I
should actually adjust myself based off of that.
Like, should I go really fast in the
direction, like, of, of finding a minimum to
my error? Should I go slower?
Do I wanna have momentum?
Right? Like, there's lots of lots of things
that we can, take into consideration
for the,
for the way that the model should update
itself, for the for the way that the
mold should update itself.
Right? Alright. So we'll compile this.
Now here we go. Now now comes the
fun part. Alrighty.
So
we are going to
define a variable called history. Looks I I
remember finding this to be, like, a really
weird, a really weird sort of thing. But,
basically, you can think of it as, like,
like, the tape in a cash register.
Right? And we're gonna call a fit exercise,
and what that's gonna do is it's going
to train on the training data.
It is going to use the test data
for validating that,
and we're gonna train it for a certain
number of epochs. So how many times through
the data do we want to,
do we wanna iterate? And there are
a bajillion different features, like, ways you can
things you can specify,
within this. Like, you can do
my goodness. There's there's,
like, an an unknowable amount. You can have
callbacks to stop training based on something, you
know, that happened. Let me just kick this
off.
You can, you know, have,
you know, if you if you minimize your
loss to a certain level, you know, you
can have,
you can, you know, you can you can
introduce a
skew. You can have a holdout dataset that
only gets used at the end. I mean,
there's lots and lots of different things
that you can do when you're when you're
fitting a model.
So
what are we doing here? So this is
a this is a training
process. You're observing it in real time. So
here are the the number of,
they're called steps. So the number of of,
processes that are that are occurring and the
number of,
batches that are that are being flowed flowed
through.
Here's our loss function. Right? And here's our
accuracy. So at this point, the model is
67%
accurate,
now going up to 68.
And
and
how many epochs did we decide to lots
of inch this is the the sort of
finesse part. So we're doing one epoch here.
Okay. That's fine. So just in, like, really
simple terms. That this because this has been
seeded with images that knows have pneumonia and
images that knows that doesn't have pneumonia. It's
a looping over them, applying the model,
and then the back propagation is when it
gets one wrong and it knows it's wrong,
it feeds it back through the model tweaking
the parameters and tells the accuracy if he
gets one right. Yes. Exactly right. Exactly right.
And thanks to the beauty of calculus, we
know which which neuron,
which which signal
propagator
was the most responsible for the the problems
and which one was
irrelevant.
And so the beauty of
of tools like RMS prop as the optimizer
is that they can account for that difference
in scale, right, that difference in in impact
in order to adjust
on a per neuron basis
exactly
what
exactly how much to adjust the the the
formula for propagating signal for each neuron. Right?
Right. So I push one through. I it's
a it's a pneumonia.
I correctly predict that it's ammonia. Good.
I wanna encourage my model to use that
as a as a thumbs up. Like, whatever
you just did was good. Use that a
lot. Right? Like, use those are those are
the signals you gotta be looking for in
terms of pneumonia. Right? And then it'll go
back and make those, you know, changes, make
them more ingrained. Right? Now I go forward.
I find out that I goofed up. Okay.
Well, I'm gonna come backwards and adjust that
so that my loss, my my error
is smaller. All of machine learning is just
reducing your loss. Picking a good finding your
data, picking a good, loss algorithm,
way to calculate loss,
and then trying to make that loss smaller.
That's that's the ballgame. Right? Does that make
sense? Yes. Yeah. So what we are, observing
here,
is highly characteristic
of, machine learning exercises,
and that is that we have a loss.
Let's ignore that for now because it doesn't
really mean a whole lot. And And we
have an accuracy with the training data, and
the the training data is 75%
accurate. Not bad. Right? I mean, I don't
know anything about X rays. I don't know
anything about the the, you know,
the the
the
not abstract algebra, linear algebra that's sitting behind
this in terms of, like, you know, how
the the the
tensor flow is optimizing the tensors,
you know, to tensors are just, multidimensional
matrices. You know, how it's doing all of
that, I have no freaking clue. But I,
myself, as an end user, have, now created
a, model that, is not 75%
accurate, but 70% accurate. So remember, we split
our data into testing
to training and testing. And the training data
was given to the model to, like, you
know, Victor Rocky, like, okay. I'm gonna learn
from this. Right? And then we, you know,
here's the big competition. You know, it's not
your standard sparring partner. These are images you've
never seen before. Right? And here, you can
see that my accuracy on my validation is
only 70%.
Right? And so oftentimes,
what you'll see let's actually run this for
a a few more epochs,
to to make the make the point,
even more apparent, and we'll continue on,
while this is running.
We'll do four.
A GPU would have been nice, but I
didn't wanna overcomplicate
things.
What you'll observe is very common.
It's known in the if you've ever heard
this term, overfitting,
which basically says, I am excellent at predicting
the four forks that I have seen. You
give me one of those forks, I'm a
crush that. Like, no way I'm screwing up
those four forks. You bring me a rate.
I've never seen it before. As far as
I know, it's got the right you know,
like, the world is different than what I've
been trained on. Right? So it is highly
possible. Like, here you can see, like, you
know,
it is highly possible to get incredibly
high accuracy
in your training data, but it's so specific
to your training data that, you know,
I don't know, a a fork from somewhere
else in the world is not gonna get
recognized a fork even though it's a fork.
That makes sense? So so there this is
where we were talking art and science. This
is where an an experienced,
data scientist will be able to, you know,
see very quickly, like, wait a second. You're
telling me I got 92% accuracy and I
have, like, a dataset of 5,000 images? This
is overfit. This is this is basically memorizing
this this dataset and not generalizing
to
X rays of people with with
pneumonia or not. Right? Does that make sense?
It does make sense. Yes. Okay. Cool.
I may actually want to interrupt
this because this could take a hot sec,
but,
it's okay. We can we can
we can do other stuff in the meantime.
Alright. So next up, I am going to
just copy and paste in some,
visualization stuff. This is not, you know, overly
exciting.
And then once that,
runs,
the above cell runs, then, we will be
able to
see some output here. So let me let
me queue this up.
And then
here we go. So the first thing we're
gonna visualize is the relationship between,
between,
the
epoch
will be our will be our x axis.
Then we will observe accuracy and loss and
then validation accuracy and validation loss. Right? And
so we'll be able to see what we'll
observe almost assuredly is that the you know,
look here. Right? Here, I've got validation accuracy
of 72%,
and I've got, training accuracy of 93%.
Right? And what you'll observe is that, you
know, it'll start to memorize that training dataset,
but in fact, our validation accuracy, how well
it works on data it hasn't seen, will
in fact, at a certain point start to
go down because the model is is not
is is overfitting. The model is is too
specific to the training set, and it is
picking up on things that are in fact
not generalized,
qualities of a of a a pneumonia patient,
but rather
these specific 5,000,
you know, people's
idiosyncrasies.
Is it fair to say then that the
dataset is the most important part of these
models? Or is Oh, yeah. For sure. For
sure. The dataset is everything. In fact, there
are new
it's it's it's really exciting. I mean, this
might if we watch this in five years,
we might be you know, it it'd be
like trying to encourage someone to program COBOL
these days. Like, we may we may look
like absolute medieval, you know, dinosaurs.
And the reason for that, I mean, there
are products on the market.
Apple produced one for for their software development
kit. I forget what it's called. But, basically,
the entire thing is a UI. You know,
it looks like any Apple design product that
has two
boxes.
Drag
test data. Yeah. Drag, yeah, drag drag category
one here, drag category two images there. And
then you don't see
anything about it, and it produces a model.
The reality is that even though,
this type of of a very specific
evaluate you know, the the the tuning,
the the model structure, how many layers, what
kinda convolutions,
should it be dense, should it be RELU,
sigma, all these sorts of details are far
less
important than the dataset, which is to say
that you could have way more
performant models
with a bigger dataset as a you know,
with as opposed to, like, what is the
impact of, like, fiddling with your model architecture
or, like, the the associated stuff. Now these
it's still valuable areas of research, but, you
know,
it's it's it re it is really, really,
really all about the dataset. So another one
that I I saw recently, I think it's
called MindsDB,
where it's a imagine a SQL database
where you say,
okay. I made a table,
and here are the the features. So the
the parameters that or the the details about
the the row, And here's the outcome. Right?
So, you know, think of a silly example,
like an ecommerce example. Here's, you know,
the SKU or the the the
the product ID of the first thing this
person bought, second, third, fourth,
and,
you know, here's what they bought fifth. So
I wanna be able to predict with four
what the fifth one is gonna be. So
you just, like, tell it, like, give me
another column that is predict five.
Like and it'll it'll just do this all
behind the scenes. And in particular, you know,
there's in Kubeflow, there's some great automation around
this as well,
which we'll see in a second, to be
able to,
evaluate,
things programmatically.
That's why I've defined things like,
you know, epochs, learning rate, and batch size
as hyperparameters
to to fiddle with that. And I'd it
is I really wanna do an a demo
of this, but it's possible to to fiddle
with your your
model architecture too. Right? Like, you could say
put in another layer, remove a layer, add
a, you know, more neurons, less neurons. Those
could be variables that you could experiment with
also. How specific can you scroll back up
to the convolution and the the thing? Like,
see, there's, 12 lines of code there. Is
this the main bulk of our model and
how specific is that to detect a pneumonia?
Like, if I were to throw a different
set of images at it, like,
you know, a football and, you know, a
golf ball, Is it still gonna be the
same pattern? Do I have to tweak what
I'm changing in the code? Like, how does
that work?
Yes. So you would not have to
you could you could throw
any any binary image classification,
you know, that has three channels and could
be, you know, resized reasonably to one fifty,
one 50 into this. There's there's nothing at
all special about it.
After all, if I did it, it can't
be that special. Right? Like, I I literally
and, like, I'm not a specialist on this.
But
you would have to retrain the model. Right?
So you couldn't take an an an extant
model
and and use it for
as is
for footballs and and
I wanted to say, like, footballs and and
soccer balls, but I think you probably meant
a soccer ball in the first place. So
one, footballs and baseballs.
And
and
and you would have to then do you
have two options. Either you can just take
the raw model and
and just train it again. Just basically point
this notebook to a different set of directories.
Or, you can do what's called transfer learning,
which is, in many cases,
what we're doing here is nothing more than
passing a series of filters over stuff. Right?
And then observing the output. So then with
transfer learning and this can be very expensive.
Right? With transfer learning, what we do is
imagine you just stuck another layer on the
bottom,
right, that said, yeah. Okay. Start with the
model as it exists. Right? Because it's a
pretty good model for for two dimensional images.
I like it a lot. I don't wanna
pay the compute and time and hassle to
redo everything associated with them. I might not
even have a chance to. It might not
be possible for me. I might not have
access to the source data.
But I have this new dataset, and I
and it is a binary image classification.
So,
I'm gonna have it hold this set of
manipulations
constant,
and then just fiddle with the the new
stuff that's that's underneath. Don't only change that.
That's called transfer learning.
Okay. Awesome.
Yeah. We've got a a question there, which
I'll throw up just now. You know, I
think our epochs are just about done.
Yep. Alvin asks, how did the 512 neurons
get matched to the flatten out pixel array?
Do each neurons get assigned some pixels?
Ah.
Let me show you. So you see here,
there's a flattened layer.
That's that's what did it. And yes. So
so it got flattened out.
It basically just, you know, take,
I'm trying to think what was, like, a
Lego, basically. Take a block off the top,
put it over here, take the next block
off, put it next to it, but flattens
it all out, just a bunch of numbers.
Those numbers go into a neuron. A neuron
is just a formula, like a y equals
m x plus b type type of thing.
The the b is your bias.
The y is your or excuse me. The
m is your
is the,
is your
slope,
and then the x is your input value.
And, then all of the the neurons are
connected to all of the other neurons. So
based on the back propagation,
some will be elevated,
some in terms of their signal amplification, some
will be muted.
Right? And,
as a result of that,
the the model learns
how to what neurons
indicate what outcome and and at what to
what degree.
Nice. Thank you.
Mhmm.
Do we have some visuals? YouTube video. I'm
sorry to go. No.
No. There's a great YouTube video
that that does a fantastic job visually animating
all of this process. So so anyways, here
we go. Let's let's take a look at
some visualization. So we started off
unusually high. The the seed obviously updated as
this was our second time running through it.
And
but what you observe is that there is
a significant delta. Right? And and we got
very lucky. On this fourth run through, we
got a higher accuracy than
than in any previous. But, typically, what you
see is that, you know, there is a
a decline
over time.
And this is the loss, so just the
inverse of the accuracy. Not the exact inverse,
but, you know, accuracy
is success, loss is failure.
So, you know, you can see that the
curves point in the the mirror image way.
That make sense? It does. Alright. Great. So
now let's let's get to sort of a
a a look at what is actually,
what is the model actually seeing?
So here we go. So here's this is
these map to our our layers. Right? So
what do we say? We wanted 16 different
filters passed over the image. Okay?
And here we can see that this is
a pneumonia example. Alright.
So what we're doing, we're passing a filter
over it. And then we're passing
we're taking the the max pool of that
and then passing,
that, 32 filters over it, if I recall
correctly. So let's see what we're what, you
know, what happens. Here, you can see that
the the pixel height here is, like, 75
or something. Right?
Then when we condense it, when we pool
it,
we're only picking the loudest
of all the pixels in that filter.
And, as a result, our image shrinks.
And here you can see that I've got
32 filters running across this,
and it but it's a smaller image.
And then I'm going to,
do that exercise again.
And now you can see that it's getting
the scale is getting smaller.
Here's the max pooling result of that layer
above. Right? And what you notice in this
in the same same way that the that
the fork,
mold changed over time by virtue of what
you plowed into it, you see sort of
the same concept here, right, where we're observing
certain
commonalities among these things where the the it
seems as though, for example, if I were
to summarize, you know, there's a there's a
certain vertical pattern,
right, that is associated,
in these examples. And and and in some
cases,
they're they're vertical on the side. In some
cases, they're vertical in the center.
And in some cases, they're completely blank. That's
also helpful to know. Let's let's,
is this using I think it's using a
random input. Let's just make sure.
Yes. Random choice. Alright. Let's run this again.
Let's see if we can get a a
normal. Okay. So here's a normal.
Okay. So what do we notice here at
the very bottom layer? I hope it's it's
big enough for folks to see. But but
what I see here is that rather than
the vertical line standing out quite so much,
I'm starting to see,
more horizontal lines that that seem to sort
of line up with the,
with the ribs, right, with the rib cage.
And and it's certainly not nearly as pronounced,
the the vertical
lines in here. So so this is what
the model is seeing, and this is what
it's using to make a determination based on
all of the the outputs that it sees
here,
what
class of classification it it should be in.
So
so, yeah, that's the that's the ballgame.
It's this is actually using the model that
we just trained. Let me find it for
you. It's in here somewhere.
We
are actually plugging this into
the model if I could just find the
line that is doing it. Oh,
it's here somewhere.
It's so zoomed in. Oh, here we go.
Successive feature visualization model. So we we got
the model, and we're asking it to predict
x.
Right? So it's it's taking an image example,
manipulating it, normalizing it, doing everything we did,
and then it's plowing it through the model
itself. And this is what,
this is is, what the model is seeing.
So you're really, you know, quite literally seeing
what the model is sealing seeing. I know
we've we've we've kind of been on the
air for a long time.
I could show you how to turn this
into a pipeline. This has been sort of
a data science primer,
less so a a Kubeflow primer.
Up to you.
If you have the time, yeah, we can
do that next step. Let let's see how
we move this over.
Sure. Yeah.
In the words of
the late
oh, goodness. Come on. Not not now. I'm
trying to remember his name.
Mitch Hedberg. Anything's in walking distance if you've
got the time.
Okay. So
this is Kail. Kail is an open source
tool
that basically instead normally, the workflow, you know,
what you would have to do is you'd
have to take all this code. You'd have
to take it basically, take it out of
the notebook, move your imports into every cell,
define make each cell its own function,
you know, then use pipeline
Kubeflow pipelines, domain specific language, DSL code to
write the pipeline. Kale says, you don't wanna
do any of that. We'll give you a
button. You click the button. This is what's
happening here. So you'll notice I have this,
like, handy dandy little pencil icon That's an
overlay. So I can call this. I can
define what's going on. So this is an
import step.
Right? Okay.
Now in a pipeline,
I do not need to do any kind
of, printing of output. Right? So this will
skip this. This is my hyperparameter
cell, so I'm gonna call this my pipeline
parameters, aka I want it to, like, goof
around with this. Right? Like, I want it
to
I want it to
adjust this, to know to adjust this automatically.
We'll see how how that goes. Again, batch
size, how many forks do I wanna flow
through the mold before I make changes on
my
model? Alright. And we're gonna put this down
to one epoch just because
time purposes,
train faster. Alright. So now I'm come to
my first pipeline step. Not a super exciting
step, but we'll call it something like preprocess
data.
And it doesn't depend on anything. You can
specify, you know, resource dependencies also, but it
doesn't depend on any other pipeline steps because
guess what? It's the first pipeline step.
Next up, Matplotlib inline. This is definitely a
skip.
The pipeline Kubernetes doesn't care about seeing a
picture, so we're gonna remove these.
Yep. Okay. Then we've got
why don't we call this the compile model
step?
After all, we are compiling
the model,
and it depends on preprocessing the data. No
great surprise there.
Okay.
Now we move right along
to
our training step.
So we'll call this train,
and it depends on
compile.
Woo hoo.
Alright.
And
then below,
I just wanna make sure I remove all
of these and just skip them
so that we don't end up with,
complaints
from
the
scheduler. Alright. Now the last thing I wanna
do because I do wanna use hyper parameter
optimization, automatic hyper parameter optimization,
is I have to tell the
you know,
it it the the the, the hyper parameter
optimization
software that comes with Kubeflow needs
something to needs something to shoot for. So
what do we wanna do? Rule number one,
we wanna minimize our loss.
Cut down on the loss. If we've got
loss, it means we're doing something wrong. So
we wanna find the the version of this
story, the version of the model that has
the most
that has the least loss.
So I'm gonna give this a name. I'm
gonna call it
X-ray. So these are all Kubeflow CRDs, actually,
for your ops folks on the on the
line.
So an experiment is a CRD. A pipeline
is a is a CRD.
Give it a an ex a description, and
they have relationships with one another on one
another like an experiment, may have many pipelines,
that kind of thing.
Or a pipeline may have many experiments.
I have to I I don't know. It's
all that's the problem with visual tools. You
never know what acts things are actually called.
Alright. So now what I wanna enable is
hyperparameter tuning with Katib.
So
what I will do is
define the
search space. So it noticed that learning rate
was something that I had, defined.
Right? So that was one of the hyperparameters.
Let me close this and take you right
back up. Where did I define this? Right
up here in the pipeline parameters. Right here.
Right? So it's gonna automatically pick that up
from that cell,
and it's gonna be arranged. Let's say, on
the one hand, point zero zero
one,
and max will say, I don't know, point
one.
And let's, you know, let's go crazy. Let's
say that we go by in steps of
point o one.
Alright? So the learning rate says
okay. Okay. Okay. Once you figure out how
to change the mold, don't go crazy with
changing the mold.
Figure out how much you think you should
change the mold and then divide that by
a hundred, right, or or a thousand in
this case, and and go incrementally from there
because it is very easy to overshoot the
runway, so to speak, on that and and
end up in
on the wrong side of a of a
gradient descent.
Epochs,
we can manipulate this. We're not going to
because we don't wanna change the amount of
time it takes to run this thing.
We're gonna have a batch size min of
eight. Let's call it a max of one
twenty eight, and let's go crazy and
say, I don't know, 32 is the step.
So let's go that way. We can define
the algorithm for how it should pick different,
hyperparameters,
and it's smart enough to sort of look
back and see what's what seems to be
working. And then what's our objective? We wanna
minimize
the,
the validation loss. Alright?
So I'm gonna dial this down to 6.
We'll have three parallel trials.
Again, Kubernetes.
This is where we get all of the
the Kubernetes goodness coming to life. But, you
know, thank goodness someone who's not familiar with
that and doesn't wanna learn it doesn't have
to to do their job.
And now it's what, Kata or excuse me.
Now what Kaila is doing is validating the
notebook.
The back end I'm using for for snapshotting
with Kaila is, is Rawk.
And
once this, snapshot completes,
it's a fairly sizable dataset, so it may
take a
second. There's quite a bit of, blocks to
look at. What it's gonna do is it's
going to
compile the notebook into a Kubeflow DSL
code for me so that the Kubeflow pipelines
knows what to do with it. Then it
is going to
upload the pipeline for me, hopefully. Then it's
going to create an experiment around that, and
then it is going to create a content
experiment
whereby it breaks out each of the different
you'll see it. For each run, it's gonna
pick, okay, try batch size this, learning rate
that.
It'll pick the the,
it'll
determine which are the the the combinations
it's gonna run with, first. So here we
go. It compiled.
Oh. Uh-oh.
API. Oh, I know. I Why
don't we give this
different
yeah.
The
let's make it a new experiment.
X-ray two, pipeline description, X-ray two. Let me
close this. Let me compile and run.
Naming things.
What a what a disaster. Alright.
And then we'll be able to observe this
running. Does it matter that your new experiment
doesn't have a name?
Probably.
Yeah. I
I thought I saw it had a name.
Alright. Let's let's third does.
Does it matter that it doesn't have a
name? Yes. It matters, David. Would have been
very helpful if you'd include me into this.
I I'm just watching. I'm just here to
Oh, yeah. This is great. Oh, look at
this. This this has never happened before. I'm
so glad it's happening now.
It's a little little jitter here. I don't
think it likes being blown up to this
extent. I'm not surprised. I mean, it looks
great on our side, just FYI.
Good.
Okay. So what's this gathering suggestions stage?
Uh-huh. So this is what I meant before
when it's, like, making,
it has to make a decision. Right? We're
doing three parallel trials.
No trials have have run yet. Right? So
what
should I use as my
wacko combination of hyperparameters to kick this bad
boy off? Right? I have to have to
make a decision on that.
Okay. So this I'm gonna zoom out just
a scooch here because it's a little aggressive.
Here we go. Alright. So what is it
doing? So,
these for these three trials, it is gonna
vary the batch size from eight
to, whatever this is. Let's find out.
From eight to 40 to 72. Alright? And
each one of these will be,
its own pipeline. So I can go ahead
as a data scientist or data engineer.
I can,
click on this.
And here you can see my pipeline is
running. So the first thing it did was
the create volume step. I can click on
any of these steps and see the logs
for the the pod. I can see the
pod spec, the pod YAML.
You know, one area that I think folks
who are looking for ways to contribute,
you know, please jump in is to sort
of simplify
a lot of the stuff that gets thrown
in here.
And you'll also note that, you know, the
the
the way that it's the way that it's
containerized is just powering this all through to,
you
know, as as a as a plain as
a text file to the, to the, underlying
image. It's like maybe
not, like, long term. You know, it might
be something that that we wanna, as a
community, sort of work on.
But we're waiting for the pods to come
up. I can actually show you what this
looks like from the terminal. So let me
do a clear on this.
I know it's a little bit smaller. Bear
with me. Let me do a watch. Kube
CTO get PO is gonna be launching in
my namespace.
So here you can see these are the
the pipelines
that have
that are waiting to get scheduled.
Here are the ones that are running X-ray
two.
This, set of hyperparameters will get its own
sort of identifier.
And then here are the ones that
that are, waiting to run. So each of
these, is a pod. You know, you'll see
similarities
between the the
unique identifiers.
That's because a lot of the
you know, for this one, it might be
that that only one hyper you know, only
one parameter has changed. So for this first
batch of three, they're gonna have the same
five character identifier in the middle here.
Where's my pipeline, actually? Here we go.
You wanna you wanna boot up here, bud?
Do I have something that's got a little
more action?
Experiments,
HP tuning,
running three.
Trials
running.
Are you, though?
Am.
Kubernetes lying to you. Maybe yeah. Welcome to
my life.
Let's let's let's go back and just, like,
let's look at one that actually ran before,
which I deleted so that I looked cool.
That was a mistake.
Alright. Here we go. Here's here's one that
I didn't delete from that UI. Okay. So
here's my DAG. I'm gonna simplify it.
So, yeah, here's all my steps. So I
can click into them. I can see the
logs. I can see, you know, all the
other stuff. And here is my, training exercise.
You can see the same, loss and and
and accuracy metrics that we had before. So
suffice it to say, the the operational
benefit
of using a tool like Kubeflow, and Kubeflow
is the the leading open source Kubernetes native
platform for this type of work is that
now, as a data scientist using
Kail,
rather than delivering a Jupyter Notebook, which is
sort of like like a jail for my
code. Right? It needs to come out of
there to be to be useful.
Instead, I can deliver
a a scalable and repeatable pipeline that can
then be iterated upon, chained onto, branched off
of
to to advance the project. And in fact,
we could have a a serving component
at the end of it as well.
And I you know, in that
here's a an example is a different different
model. But here,
I have a model that's that's being served
just off the the end of a a
pipeline.
And, I can see the logs for it.
I can see the the predictions,
that are coming out as well as the
input data that's coming in.
And I have metrics. This is all new
in one dot three.
My colleague,
Kimonis, and and some of the other
folks in in the working group
contributed this. So, yeah, this is
this is what greets the the eager data
scientist
looking for adventure.
Awesome.
Thank you very much.
Will I pop us back over to video
mode? Yeah. Awesome.
Can you still hear me?
Can I still hear you actually? That should
be the question based on earlier.
No. I can't hear you.
Oh, you're muted.
No. You're gone.
Is it your end? What do you think?
Alright. But I can't hear you.
You know what? Okay.
That's frustrating, but we are at the end
of our session. I just want to say
thank you very much. I think that was
amazing how you managed to take such a
complex
subject and, you know, you didn't just introduce
us to Kubeflow and the new features, but
you actually took us on a full journey
of data science and how we could apply
that to real world situations like detecting pneumonia
and X rays. I found the whole thing
riveting. I've learned so, so much. Thank you
very much for that. Kubeflow
looks amazing. I hope other people have really
enjoyed today's session and we'll take a look
at it too. So, Michael,
although you can't say goodbye, you there we
go. We salute. We'll do it perfectly. Thank
you very much for joining me today. I
will speak to you soon. Have a good
one.